Let's start by going to Hebrews 13, 16, please.
Of interest in the English edition of the New World Translation,
the first word in this verse is a connective word.
And when we give attention to connective words and phrases in our Bible reading,
we can gain more insight as to what the original writer intended,
of course, with the Holy Spirit's influence.
A question.
But before the question, let's look at verse 16.
It says, moreover, so that's the connective word.
Moreover, do not forget to do good and share what you have with others
for God is well pleased with these sacrifices.
So now, the question.
Is the doing good and sharing with others,
referring to sharing the good news with others in our territory?
No, it is not.
Well, how can I say that with so much confidence?
For one thing, for years, when Hebrews 13, 16,
is cited by itself in the watchtower,
the application is not to the preaching work.
Well, now let's give thought to that connective word.
Word moreover connects verse 16 to the preceding verse 15.
So let's read verse 15 now.
It says, through you, him, let us always offer to God a sacrifice.
Yes, but specifically a sacrifice of praise.
That is the fruit of our lips that make public declaration to his name.
So verse 15 had already addressed preaching.
The English word moreover is defined as meaning an addition to what was already said.
So the sacrifice of praise in verse 15, that was cared for.
But now in verse 16, in addition to that,
there's these other sacrifices with which God is well pleased.
So you see, verse 15 is talking about preaching
with the goal to helping people become Christ disciples.
Verse 16 is doing good and sharing with fellow believers
to help them remain Christ disciples.
Now, what do these other sacrifices in verse 16 entail?
Well, as an example, please find second Corinthians chapter eight.
Second Corinthians chapter eight,
this involves giving materially to fellow believers in need.
Now, it's true here Paul was writing to the Corinthians,
but these few verses about sharing,
he's referring to the Macedonian Christians.
Now, who were they sharing with?
It was fellow believers.
The congregations in Judea were suffering hardship, poverty,
and so the Macedonian Christians,
along with others, were collecting money to help with that need.
Second Corinthians eight, two through four.
During a great test under affliction there,
that's the Macedonian Christians,
their abundance of joy and their deep poverty
made the riches of their generosity abound.
For it was according to their means,
yes, I testify, it was even beyond their means.
Well, they on their own initiative kept earnestly begging us
for the privilege of kindly giving
and to have a share in the relief ministry
for the holy ones, fellow believers.
So this was not preaching,
but it was certainly a good work of generosity and sharing.
Now, as a side point to our text for today,
did you notice Paul said Hebrews 13, 16, he said,
moreover, do not forget, do not forget to do good and share.
Why do you suppose do not forget
was inserted in that sentence?
We get distracted.
As imperfect humans, we may have great intentions,
but sometimes we forget to follow through.
Now, Paul's writing of the second letter
to the Corinthians, it was about five or six years
before he wrote to Hebrews.
So now when writing to the Hebrews,
he says, do not forget, Paul may have had in mind
what happened to the Corinthians.
Are you still on second Corinthians chapter eight?
The Corinthians had great intentions to do good
and to share with the congregations in Judea,
but it seems they forgot to follow through.
Second Corinthians eight, 10 and 11.
And in this, I give my opinion.
This is for your benefit.
Seeing that already a year ago,
you not only initiated the action,
but also showed your desire to do it.
They had great intentions to contribute,
but a year has now elapsed, verse 11.
So now also complete what you started to do
so that your readiness to act may be completed
according to the means you have available.
Well, that's a good reminder for us not to forget
once in our congregation or elsewhere that are in need.
Write yourself a note.
When I think to do good to someone,
I send myself an email so that I do not forget.
But even if we do not,
I can't think of anyone in our congregation
that needs assistance, maybe financially.
We cannot discount the council of Hebrews 13, 16.
Think of those Macedonians.
They went outside of the border
of their congregation territory to give financially.
All of us, whether we have much or little,
all of us can contribute something
to the worldwide work,
especially when we think of the number of disasters
that are affecting our brothers worldwide.
And then the organization can direct those funds
to needy brothers and sisters that we don't even know.
Justice Paul directed the contributions in the first century.
Well, in addition to providing relief financially,
some do good and share
by being physically involved in disaster relief,
securing homes that have been damaged,
restoring kingdom halls.
What you hope is well pleased with all of these.
Well, what other ways can we do good and share?
Sharing hospitality in some way.
Romans 12, 13 encourages us
to follow the course of hospitality.
And the time in preparing and giving a scriptural talk
that falls into the category of Hebrews 13, 16.
But now what else could fall in that category?
How about encouraging, shepherding visit?
Or helping a sick one, helping the elderly?
These all fall into that giving.
You recall in Hebrews 13, 15,
it spoke of a sacrifice of praise
and this public declaration of Jehovah's name,
preaching to unbelievers.
Whereas verse 16, it refers to talking to believers,
assisting them with these other sacrifices,
some of which we've mentioned.
Well, which is the most important of those two verses?
15 or 16?
At 2009, Watchtower asked,
which of these two Christian activities is more important?
It didn't say after a question like that
is similar to asking about a bird,
which of whose two wings are more important?
Well, the answer is obvious.
A bird cannot get into the air
with only one wing operational.
He needs both wings equally, like this bird.
We need to share in both aspects
of our service to God in order to be complete Christians.
Well, that Watchtower said of these two responsibilities,
they complement one another.
So then we can soar,
knowing that Jehovah is well pleased
with all such sacrifices.